# Team Mew - The Bubble App

An app for young professionals to develop their social life in an unfamiliar
city.

Helen Bauer, Isa de Luis, Sela Domkofski, Lily Jiang, Daniel Quinteros

## Project Brief

### What is the problem in brief?

If you’re a young professional in a new city, finding and making new friends can
be difficult, especially if you’re a remote worker. Our project would help
prevent isolation and promote making new connections.

### How will your project change the status quo? For whom?

Currently, the status quo is that young professionals who work remotely often
spend a lot of time alone. In-person workers can naturally make friends through
their office environment, but remote/hybrid workers don’t have this opportunity.
They also might be in a new city or situation and don’t have a good way to make
new connections. A lot of people also use dating apps as a way to meet new
friends, which can be confusing for those who are on dating apps solely to date.

With our project, most people would have a natural way to meet new people they
might be interested in befriending. It would promote casual hangouts with the
intention of becoming friends.

### What is (at least) one naïve design idea (rough sketch)? How does this idea address what you see as the core problem?

We’ve come up with a couple of ideas. First, we thought about making a
Tinder-style friend app, with the swipe left/swipe right system; however, we
felt like that was too similar to the dating app space we were trying to break
out of.

Our second idea was to create an app that shows a map of events in your area.
You could indicate if you were going to an event (so your friends could join
you) and post your own events if you wanted to host something. Additionally, if
you wanted to host something smaller and more personal, you could post an event
only to your “friends”, which would be people you’ve met before and mutually add
each other as friends. Another idea is that each person can create “groups” of
friends as people often have different groups with different interests, and they
can post events only to certain groups. There could be some default hangout
suggestions for new connections who don’t know each other’s interests well, such
as cooking meals together, music jam sessions, or playing pickleball.

### What information do you need to collect? How will you collect it? How will you meet your target users, or who can serve as effective proxies for them?

We need to talk to young professionals who prefer to work from home and feel
isolated in their city. We have older siblings/cousins that can put us in
contact with these types of people or we could reach out to recent Olin alumni
that could experience this.

### How will your team work together to accomplish these goals (as well as your individual learning goals)?

Our team will work to talk to at least 8 people to understand their experiences
of being in a new city and the challenges they face. After interviewing the
people’s experiences, we will reflect on whether or not our original
idea/product may or may not work.

## Inspirational Designs

Bumble For Friends, Meetup.com, Peanut, Yubo.com, Instagram, Snapchat, Whatsapp,
WeChat, We3, Googles Maps, All Events, Town Social Organizations, Reddit, Yard
Sale App

### Bumble For Friends

Helen Bauer

![Bumble for Friends](/mew/media/bumble_for_friends.jpg)

Our idea was for a friend app for individuals who have relocated to specifically
a new small city for work (i.e. Tulsa, OK), so we chose Bumble BFF as an
inspirational product.

The service integrates the interests of people, some inspirations of activities
to do, and creates a group chat where they can connect with one another. The
design elements are good because it is very straightforward on the basic
questions, however because it is also known as a dating app, we wanted to move
away from the dating app scene.

Additionally, another aspect we thought about was the fact that there’s an
inspiration for plans/activities, but there are no locations for such activities
given to the people (i.e. tripadvisor/yelp) and/or connections with local
companies.

An element to borrow is the simplistic questions to determine the groups because
the algorithm is easier, but also streamlines the users’ experience. However,
there will be an additional element that helps them actually implement the plan
(location of event, connection to local events, etc.) to make it all in one.

### We3

Isa de Luis

![We3](/mew/media/we3.jpg)

We3 is a friend app that is structured like a dating app, however, instead of
pairing you with one person, it pairs you with two. This alleviates the stress
of having to make 1-on-1 conversation and removes the awkwardness of having to
continuously make conversation with someone you just met. Additionally, We3
claims it’s “safer” than the 1-on-1 friend making apps because you’re matched in
groups and you don’t have to worry about people’s ulterior motives. We3 ask you
a bunch of questions to get a profile on you and use social science and AI to
match you with people who are compatible with you. We3 also allows you to
prevent friends already in your contacts from seeing you and your profile is
kept private from anyone you’re not compatible with.

All of these features are ones we can include in our product. Firstly, pairing
people in groups of 3 is something we can consider for our product, since
typically people feel more comfortable in groups, however, we can try and be
inclusive to all people by letting folks choose their preferred group size.
Additionally, making everyone’s profile private on default can let our users
have peace of mind that their profile won’t be shown to anyone other than people
they’re pursuing a friendship with. Finally, we can use the feature that allows
you to present friends already in your contacts from seeing you, because users
might want to break out of their current bubble by making friends outside of it.

### Bethel Parks and Recreation

Sela Domkofski

![Bethel Parks and Rec](/mew/media/bethel_parks_and_rec.jpg)

Parks and Rec is an official organization in my small hometown that was around
throughout my childhood and still very active today. The goal of this
organization is very similar to what we’re hoping to achieve with our product-
connecting people to improve their quality of life- though its focus is more on
creating community within the town. It mainly operates with paper resources
(bulletin boards in public areas, flyers, etc.) to spread the word about events
being held in town. Members of the community can go through Parks and Rec to
request use of public spaces (like the library, school gyms, sports fields,
parks, etc.) to host social events. Often these events are targeted specifically
at either children, families, or adults (it also manages the town youth sports
teams). It also uses its social media presence to promote events and discounts
to encourage traffic to small, local businesses in town.

Our app can take what the Parks and Rec office does, creating local events and
social activities, and make it tons easier for the everyday person to organize
something. Parks and Rec has aged systems as an established office, needing
people to fill out go to their office to register for many things and fill out
forms. Also, the most online presence the office has is their facebook page
([Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/people/Bethel-Parks-and-Recreation/100057381523314/)),
meaning it’s hard to know anything about the events going on if you’re not
regularly going through public buildings like the post office or library with
their physical posters for events.

The foundations for connecting people in a community through social events are
already laid out- but our app can help transition the process to be entirely
accessible online with a low level of engagement to be in the know and create
your own new connections and events.

### Yard Sale App

Lily Jiang

![Yard Sale](/mew/media/yard_sale.jpg)

Yard Sale is a mobile app to view yard sale events. It includes a map of your
nearby location, and markers to indicate where events are occurring and what
their details are. Users can also post their own events.

The flow of the app is a good inspiration because you open the app and
immediately see events near you. You can also choose the day of the week you’re
looking for, so events can be posted days in advance for people who like
planning ahead. Overall it’s a really great execution of a community-driven way
to display events to a large group of people with a specific interest.

### Reddit Communities

Daniel Quinteros

![Reddit](/mew/media/reddit.jpg)

Many Reddit communities are location based, meaning that they have specific
communities created for people that live in specific places (e.g. r/LosAngeles
for people that live in Los Angeles). These online communities help people to
stay up to date with planned events, news, and general discussions within the
community. Regular users can make posts to the entire community, while
moderators of the community can ensure the online group stays civil and
organized. You can also filter by types of posts so you can see only what you’re
interested in seeing (e.g. news, events, etc). Larger events can stay pinned at
the top of the community feed so that everyone in the community sees it.

## Design Process

### Design Idea

We decided to focus on designing a screen to display and interact with events in
the app, as this was one of the main purposes of our app. After exploring
various design ideas, we landed on a dynamic events page where each event is
represented by a “bubble” on the screen and the size of the bubble corresponds
to the user’s predicted interest in the event. If the predicted interest does
not correctly represent the user’s actual interest, they can resize the “bubble”
and the app will remember that information when making predictions about their
interests in the future. Clicking on a bubble will take them to a page with more
details, where they can also register for the event.

The primary benefit of implementing this design is that it is distinctly unique
from current friend-making apps, and completely avoids the swiping mechanism of
dating apps, which can be confusing and error-prone. Secondly, it appeals to our
younger demographic by offering a sleek and modern user experience, catering to
their preferences for intuitive digital interactions. Furthermore, the app's
ability to remember previous interests allows it to adapt to changing social
needs, ensuring long-term relevance. Because the bubbles offer a spectrum of
interest levels (as opposed to the binary yes/no of dating apps), the
interest-predicting algorithm can be far more accurate to the user than a simple
dataset of yes’s and no’s.

We created our sketch models with pencils/pens and paper/stickies because we had
a lot of design ideas, and we wanted to explore all of them quickly. We decided
to individually sketch a few designs each, which let us better view and
understand the range of ideas much faster than if we had chosen to create
something like a 3D “interactable” paper model of a phone. The efficiency of
this brainstorming also allowed us to quickly cut out ideas as well.

Link to sketches:
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Ym3gqsWg7vn6HRZOnQ9eyp0pqVya5FXD?usp=share_link

### Feature

We chose to focus on the group chat feature of our app. The idea is to create
something that allows users to engage with multiple people simultaneously, to
promote new connections and a sense of community. We first laid out some goals
we all wanted to achieve with our designs. The main goal was to create a design
that was convenient for users to reach out to others, coordinate plans, and
share updates. Another aspect we collectively agreed to design for was privacy
through limited messaging; we imagined many users would only feel comfortable
receiving messages from people they know or expect to see at an event. We also
felt that group chats provided users an opportunity for personalization; our
designs should be customizable to fit the users’ interests and desires for
self-expression.

To quickly explore a variety of designs, we used paper and pencil prototyping.
Each of us individually took 5-10 minutes to sketch out ideas for the design and
layout of the group chat feature. After that, we got together, shared our ideas,
and discussed each idea in depth. This allowed us to narrow down to the one
design we wanted to move forward with: a dynamic, “bubble”-centric design
(Figure 1). We chose this because it felt consistent with the design we wanted
for the main page, it is inherently eye-catching and interactive, and it is
unique enough to clearly distinct our idea from the dating app space. The
default composition of a group chat on the main group chat page is a large
center bubble for the groupchat with the event name in the middle. The
surrounding bubbles represent the members within the group chat. Tapping the
group chat bubble will take you to the actual group chat page, in which you can
read and send messages.

Link to sketches:
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1d3eafclfbWz4SXFMYBDaOrg16KJOFr5d?usp=share_link
